Cell 1 – Import Libraries
Imported all required libraries.
pandas, numpy → data handling.
train_test_split → to divide data into training and test sets.
StandardScaler → to normalize numerical features.
KNeighborsClassifier → KNN model from sklearn.
metrics → for accuracy, precision, recall, and confusion matrix.


Cell 2 – Load the Dataset
Loaded the diabetes dataset into a DataFrame.
.head() shows the first 5 rows to verify correct data loading.


Cell 3 – Check Dataset Information
.info() shows column names, data types, and non-null counts.
isnull().sum() checks if any feature contains missing values.
Confirms dataset is clean and ready for training.


Cell – Replace Zero Values with Mean
This cell replaces invalid zero values in important medical columns like Glucose, BloodPressure, SkinThickness, Insulin, and BMI with their mean values.
Zeros in these columns represent missing or incorrect data, not actual measurements.
Filling them with the mean helps clean the dataset and improves the accuracy of the KNN model.


Cell 4 – Define Features and Target
X contains independent features (like Glucose, BMI, etc.).
y contains dependent variable Outcome (1 = diabetic, 0 = non-diabetic).
Verified shapes to ensure correct splitting.


Cell 5 – Normalize the Data
KNN uses distance calculation, so normalization is essential.
StandardScaler() converts all features to same scale (mean=0, std=1).
This prevents large-scale features from dominating the distance metric.


Cell 6 – Split into Training and Test Data
Split dataset: 80% training and 20% testing.
random_state=42 ensures reproducible results.
The training set trains the model; the test set checks performance.


Cell 7 – Initialize and Train KNN Model
Created KNN model with k = 5 neighbors.
fit() trains the model by storing the training data points.
KNN doesn’t learn parameters; it stores data to compute distances later.


Cell 8 – Make Predictions
Model predicts class (0 or 1) for test data.
Each prediction is based on the majority vote of its 5 nearest neighbors.


Cell 9 – Evaluate Model Performance
cm = confusion_matrix(y_test, y_pred)
acc = accuracy_score(y_test, y_pred)
error_rate = 1 - acc
precision = precision_score(y_test, y_pred)
recall = recall_score(y_test, y_pred)


Cell 10 - Visualization
This cell visually represents the confusion matrix using a heatmap.
Each cell shows the number of correct and incorrect predictions made by the KNN model.
The diagonal values indicate correct classifications, while off-diagonal values show errors.
The heatmap helps to quickly understand how well the model performed.



ALGORITHM -- 
1. Start the program.
2. Import all required libraries.
3. Load the diabetes.csv dataset.
4. Check for missing values.
5. Separate the data into features (X) and target (y).
6. Normalize the data using StandardScaler().
7. Split the data into training and testing sets (80:20).
8. Create the KNN model with k = 5.
9. Train the model using the training data.
10. Predict the results on test data.
11. Find Confusion Matrix, Accuracy, Error Rate, Precision, and Recall.
12. Show the Confusion Matrix Heatmap for visualization.
13. Stop the program.